Friends, Mr. Rohit of my channel
came to me three-four days ago yesterday and
he told me that Sir, I run a juice
store, that is, he runs a juice shop
and 3 months ago he bought a new
bike, he had saved every rupee with a lot of hard work,
that was his down payment,
after that
he took a loan for the remaining money and bought a bike,
a few days ago he went to the market to buy something
and when he returned he saw that
his bike was stolen from there, he was
worried and regarding the claim he
asked me five questions, I am going to give you the answers to these five questions
in this video today
and you also tell me in the end of the video
whether I gave Rohit the right guidance or the
right help or not and secondly if any brother is
facing such a problem that there is a
claim, his vehicle has been stolen and he is
not getting the claim, then these five questions will
also help him in
making his claim process a little smoother,
friends, the first question which Rohit
asked me was what do I pay to the bank for the bike, should
they be paid or should I pay it
He has to keep paying his bank balance on time, so
I told him that you have to keep
paying your bank balance on time because if you do
n't pay it, the bank will keep collecting your money by charging penalty on penalty
and then interest on the penalty.
Tomorrow when the insurance company files
your claim, it will first
clear your bank loan, which will
increase the outstanding amount significantly. So you should keep paying
your balance on time and the
claim money that comes tomorrow will settle your bank
balance and
you will get the remaining claim. The
insurance company that will pay your claim will
first clear the bank balance. So if you are
paying it, your balance is reducing
from your loan amount, so there is
no loss in that. If you stop paying it,
you may have to suffer a huge loss because after
charging penalty and interest on it, you will have a
huge pending balance and
most of the claim amount will be spent in clearing your bank loan
and you will
get very little money. So you have to keep paying it
because the bank does
not care.  Whether you are selling the bike or
it has happened, they care about their money, at
what time should it be paid, so you have to keep paying
your EMIs on time, do
not stop it. The second question which Rohit has
asked me is how much claim will I get. Now
friends, whatever is mentioned in your insurance policy i.e.
Injured Declared Value, the
insurance
company will give you a claim of that amount. According to the insurance company,
that is the ideal value of your vehicle
and according to this they have
charged you the policy money, so
you will get the claim as much as your ID is also mentioned in the policy if the insurance
company approves your claim. The third
question Rohit asked me is
how do I claim this amount
from the insurance company in case of bike theft. I will
tell you the steps which I told Rohit. The
first step is to file an FIR. Whenever
such an incident happens, it will be considered a crime. If
someone has stolen your bike, then first of all
you have to file a First Information Report
in your nearest police station. Do
not delay in getting it registered
because if you delay here then it will cause
loss to both of you.  The first
disadvantage is that if you report late to the police
station, they may
fail to find your bike. If you
inform them that your bike has been stolen,
they may take immediate action and may
even find out who
stole it. Secondly, when the insurance
company files your claim, if they find out that you delayed filing the report, they may view
this as negligence
and you may face problems in your claim. The
insurance
company will ask
why you didn't file the report on time.
We believe that if you had filed the report on time,
your bike would have been found or it would
not have been stolen. Therefore, you should
file the report again at your nearest police station.
Provide all the facts and information accurately, such as where the bike
was parked, how it was stolen, when did you come to know about it,
where you were at the time. Do
not tamper with any of these facts.
Enter only the correct information in your claim,
because
this will be the base information during the entire claim process.
But the insurance company will process your claim. The
second step is to
tell the insurance company to whom you have to give the insurance
claim to the insurance company
and they will not know that your
bike or any vehicle has been stolen, then
how will they give the claim, then after registering,
you have to see the toll free number from the insurance company's policy
and call it
that your bike or any vehicle has been stolen,
how is it stolen,
you can tell all that information, they can take more details from the
owner, you will have to tell that
and along with that you can give a reference sometime later,
after that your claim will be registered,
for that you will be given a claim number
and after that a surveyor i.e. the
claim inspector will be appointed, they will
get the options,
all the questions will be asked from you regarding this incident and
basically they will want to know from you whether there is
any negligence on your part in this
or is this a fake claim
and after this your claim will be processed,
this claim will be processed in itself friends, the third
step is you have to go to the RTO office, that is,
whichever is your Transport Office,
where your  You have to go there where the bike is registered
and tell that your
bike or any other vehicle has been stolen,
this will be updated in their records,
so tomorrow if
any thief
wants to get any modification done in the RTO records, then he will not be able to do that and
they will also be aware that this vehicle can be stolen
and for this update they can
ask you for some documents of your vehicle,
you should provide them that, now
friends come to the fourth most important
step, now you have to collect all the documents
which you have to submit to the insurance company's
survey,
what are the documents, first of all you can see the
Richa Registration Certificate of your vehicle along with that, you can
see the insurance policy copy,
you have to give a copy of the driving license,
then you are submitting the original copy
which you had registered, along with that a
field claim form, in the claim form all the information
related to the theft of your bike is to be
filed, all your information is to be filed,
your bank details etc. are
also to be filed and along with that  You will also have to submit the original
keys, which are the original thing of your vehicle.
We have made a detailed video related to the survey or why it is necessary to have the original key. Now you
can watch that video completely by clicking on the button on the link above to see how important it is that
you should have the original keys of the vehicle here. The
fifth and final point is friends,
you have to submit an interrogable report.
What is the report? If the police is not able to
find your bike, then they will give you a
interrogable report. It
takes an estimated time of one month for this, that is,
if the police is not able to track your vehicle for one month, then
they will give you a interrogable
report, which you have to
submit to the insurance company. One month's time is
given to the police. It is possible that they may also find it after
tracking it, then they will
give you your car. There is
no need to process the claim in it. If the
insurance company
gives you the claim while you are filing the claim and after 10 days, suppose
your bike is found, then there is a lot of
unnecessary formalities in returning that money
and the police  The insurance company does
not even get a chance to investigate or investigate,
so after receiving the untraceable report,
you have to submit it to the insurance company.
Now friends, you have
understood the entire process of claiming theft.
I told this to Rohit and after that
Rohit asked me how much time this entire process will take. Approximately,
friends, it depends a lot on your
entry report and the
time in which you submit your documents.
If the
company does not find any doubt in the claim, then they
process it quickly. If you get
your untraceable report
only after, say, a month, then
your claim amount will be credited to your account within one to two months.
But if
two to three months are lost in receiving the untraceable report, then the
time for getting your claim will also
increase. And if the insurance
company
takes more time in its investigation, if they find some doubt
or there is some suspicion which they are
tracking, if they take more time for this, then
they can also take their time.
Now where does the problem arise? You have to make a lot of rounds to get your
entry report at the police stations
because
it is not necessary that every police officer in every police station is
cooperative
or willing to help you. So,
you should follow up from any source, whether local, any influential person, through
reference or
yourself. Now, keep following up again and again.
Get your untraceable report from the police station on time
so that the insurance company can
process your claim on time. If
your entry report is late, the more delayed
your clearance will be. So, if your
address report is on time, then you will get it within 2 months from the due date.
If it is
delayed further, then it depends on
how late your report is received, then
your claim will also get delayed to that extent. Now
friends, after knowing so much, Rohit's mother
suddenly has a question that Sir, this is
our only claim, if everything is going
well then the insurance
company will give me the claim, but if the
insurance company rejects my claim then
what should I do, where should I
complain about it or how should I process
my claim?  For that, I've also
provided five steps for them to follow, step by
step, and
file their claim. The first
step is to obtain a
claim rejection letter from the insurance company. The
reason is that the verbal surveyor can give you any
reason why your claim was
rejected. However, the rejection
letter issued by the insurance company, or the
claim representation letter, is the
document that will state the correct reason for the
rejection. Based on that,
you can prepare your response
or tell the company that this is not the case.
You should have received this certificate. The second
step is to go to the insurance company's
grievance
department. You can search for it on Google. If you
search for your insurance company's grievance department,
you will find the details of each insurance company's grievance
department. There,
you will find their email ID, address,
and phone number. You can also write a
complaint to them via email or by writing a letter stating
that you filed a claim with their company.  It
was and we feel that the
claim process was
not followed properly. Please
look into it again and get the claim processed. The
insurance company will get this claim re-received
and if there is any
mistake or fold in it then it is
possible that your claim may get approved. And
if your issue is not resolved even in the Grievance Department
then you have to go to the next step
in IRDA. IRDA
is a regulatory body which controls the insurance companies
and they see that
none of the rights of the policy holder are exploited.
They should not be exploited. So you have to call on the
phone number shown on the IRDA screen and
complain to them and
tell them how you came, it was a genuine
claim and due to some invalid reason
whatever is written in your reputation letter, you
can also tell them that because of this my
claim was rejected and I do not
think this is the right reason, after that you can send this
complaint to IRDA.  You can also do this online.
I am
providing the link in the description. You can click on it and
reach them by writing your complaint.
A complaint number will be generated for you.
Within 15 days, IRDA will write to the
insurance company and they will
respond to your claim within 15 days.
If the response is satisfactory, you
can get your claim processed. They may
ask for additional information, you have to provide
that. However, if they reject your claim immediately,
then the next step comes to the Insurance
Ombudsman. The
Insurance Ombudsman is an autonomous body that handles
claims and disputes against all insurance companies.
You have to write your complaint there. You can find the
addresses of the Insurance Ombudsman across India by searching online on Google.
You have to search for the Insurance
Ombudsman in India office. If you
search in India, you will get the complete list. The
nearest office of the Insurance Ombudsman is your nearest office.
You have to submit
your complaint there in writing. Along with this, you can also get all the information related to the Insurance Ombudsman.
Any claim-related documents, including the insurance
company's claim rejection letter, your RC,
your insurance policy, and any other
details of your case, including any complaints
you've written to the Garibdas Department or
Firda, must be
sent to the Insurance Ombudsman. There are
two conditions for filing a complaint with the Insurance Ombudsman. The
first is that you must
not have filed a complaint in any court, only then can you approach the Insurance Ombudsman. The
second condition is that
your claim should not have been rejected for more than a year. That is,
when you file a
complaint with the insurance company, it should not have been
rejected for more than a year,
otherwise you will
not be able to apply for insurance. If your
complaint is not resolved there either, and there is
no hearing there, or
you don't receive a favorable decision, then the
final step is to legally approach the court.
How do you file a complaint against the insurance company and settle your claim from there?
Now, friends, these are the five questions
whose answers  I gave it to Rohit and I
hope that he will definitely get his claim.
And all my brothers who are watching this video and are
facing such situations,
whether their vehicle is stolen, be it a car or a
bike, then take care of these buttons,
process your claim, you will
definitely get the claim. Now I will tell you some
things which you should keep in mind while
filing an insurance claim. If you are
filing an insurance claim of any option,
then definitely take care of these buttons.
First of all, do not bargain on the claim amount, that is,
if the insurance company tells you that it is
your fault, it is your negligence,
and they tell you to take half the claim,
whatever is the ID, whatever is the value of your
vehicle mentioned in the policy, and the
insurance company says that we will give you the original
value because it is your
fault too, then do not do such bargaining.
If you get a claim from the insurance company, then you will
get the full ID, otherwise you will
not get the claim. The insurance company makes one
last attempt to
reduce the claim amount, so do
not bargain in this. Secondly, keep the original
keys with you.  I have already mentioned this before,
we have specially made a video
on this, original keys
are very important because the insurance company
sees that if someone has
stolen your vehicle right now, then
keep both the original keys with you and
submit the claim form,
give that key to them right away because if it is possible that
one of your keys has been stolen earlier,
then register it at this time,
if at the time the key was stolen, then
keep proper proof of that as well, even
if you get the lock set changed, the
original key will remain with you here, there is
no problem in that too, keep this in mind,
thirdly do not delay in filing
because it is your negligence and
you may face problems
in taking the claim later, fourthly do
not delay in informing the insurance company, you have to
inform the insurance company immediately
and tell them that your bike has been
stolen, the more you delay, the more
chances of facing problems in your claim will
increase and the fifth point is when you make a
new  If you want to buy a bike, then you get a 5 year
policy in which one year is
complete insurance and the next 4 years is
only third party insurance, so the next 4
years' own damage policy which is a
policy for coverage of your bike,
most of the brothers think that now we have 5 years of
insurance and now we have coverage and
when a vehicle gets stolen then they check
that this is only third party
insurance, so get your own damage policy
renewed in the next 4 years so that your
risk is also taken care of and one final advice is that
friends, whatever information you are giving,
then in the claim form, in the claim
intimation, when you are telling the insurance company in the
name of the claim, then
you have to tell all those things and facts very clearly
like where you were at that time,
what was the location of the vehicle at that time, what time was it
when you came to know, how did you come to know, so
if you tweet or
tamper with any information in this, then the insurance company will
play with your statement and reject your claim, so be as
truthful as possible in this because if
you are telling the truth then a person can be honest in this.  If I tell you
repeatedly, it will remain in the statement only,
you won't have to think much about it. Now
friends, these are Rohit's five questions and their
answers, which I gave him, and I hope
that he will get his claim soon.
If anyone else is facing problems,
they can benefit from these answers
and make their claim process easier.
Now, please let me know in the comments
whether I helped Rohit well or
not. If you have any extra questions you
want to ask,
chances are, something
different happened to you. You can ask your question in the comment section.
I will definitely answer that too.
I am very happy to
respond to your comments. If you liked the
information given in the video and if you
feel that I have really created value for you
and this will
definitely help someone watching or subscribing, then
immediately like the video and subscribe to the channel
because our aim is to spread awareness
related to insurance to as many people as possible. The more
awareness we spread to as many people as possible, the easier it will become to
claim your insurance and protect your
rights. But now, what will happen by subscribing and liking?  The
algorithm of YouTube will see
that someone is creating value here
in some field, someone is liking the video,
someone is liking the channel, then it will make
this video
reach as many people as possible and as the video reaches more people,
this information will reach more people.
Like the video immediately and
subscribe to the channel and friends, I and
Mahendra Singh are waiting for you now, I will get your permission
in the next video and I promise you that I will
always keep bringing such information videos related to insurance for you, so take
care of yourself,
stay happy and stay healthy, Jai Hind
[Music]